== Simon Ryabinkov ==
===== Go Developer / DevOps Engineer =====
-----

=== About Me ===
I'm _Simon_, a *Software Engineer*, dedicated to delivering *high-quality software* at speed. My expertise spans *fintech* and *banking systems*, *document processing*, *analytical data systems*, and *product development* from the ground up. I have a strong background in *team leadership*, *modernizing legacy systems*, and *effective communication* with *business stakeholders*.

* Linked
  * [[https://ssleert.github.io/cv/|CV web version]] - [[https://ssleert.github.io/cv/|ssleert.github.io/cv]]
  * [[https://github.com/ssleert|Github]]
  * [[https://t.me/ssleert|Telegram]] [preferred]
  * [[mailto:ssleert@gmail.com|Email]] - ssleert@gmail.com

=== Work experience ===
- *Antarex Payment Solutions* | April 2024 - April 2025, 1 year 
  - _Participated_ in the _development_ of *multi-currency payment system* and *p2p acquiring*. 
    Specifically _implemented_ *invoice* and *withdrawal* _support_ for such currencies
    as `PHP`, `KES`, `GHS`, `TJS`, `KZT`, `TRY` and `AZN` as well as support for *trans-border transfers*
    via _*Fast Payment System*_.
    - *Stack:* `Go`, `PostgreSQL`, `Kafka`, `ClickHouse`, `Redis`
  - Developed _over *20 integrations*_ with external *payment solutions*.  
  - Designed *transaction verification and synchronization* with _external systems_.
  - Implemented a *withdraw system for mobile operators* (`Beeline`, `MTC`, `Megafon`).
  - *Rewrote and refactored* more than 30 services.
  - *Developed* a *large number* of *utility systems* to *integrate* external _*payment solutions*_ *faster* and more *efficiently*.

- *Russian Robots Startup* | February 2025 - March 2025, 1 month
  - _*Led* the *development* of a *prototype*_ site aggregator of _news_, _customers_, _suppliers_
    and _integrators_ in the _*field of robotics*_ in _Russia_.
    - *Stack:*
      - *Frontend:* `Next.js`, `shadcn`, `TailwindCSS`
      - *Backend:* `NodeJS`, `Express.js`, `SQLite3`

- *Liquid Crypto Wallet* | October 2024 - December 2024, 3 month
  - _Engaged_ in *tech leadership* in *crypto wallet development*, prioritizing *openness* and *security*.
    Experienced in *integration* with *fiat currency systems* for seamless *exchange*.
    - *Stack:*
      - *Frontend:* `Next.js`, `TailwindCSS` with _*custom designed component system*_
      - *Backend:* `Go`, `Fiber`, `GRPC`, `Nest.js`, `NodeJS`, `Common LISP`

- *OOO "PROKSI"* | April 2023 - April 2024, 1 year
  - Developed a document management system for creating *IE* and *reports*.
    Specifically, generation of `PKI CSR` certificates using a patched `OpenSSL`
    for Russian GOST standards, as well as their renewal and signing by various users.
    - *Stack:* `Go` `PHP` `Kafka` `PostgreSQL`
  - Rewrote a legacy monolith from `PHP` to `Go`, improving *performance* and *maintainability*.
  - Implemented a metrics collection system using `Grafana` and `Prometheus` for *enhanced* monitoring and insights.
  - Deployed a cloud and Kubernetes-ready infrastructure using `podman play kube`.
  - *Increased* system *reliability* by developing extensive *integration* tests.

=== Education ===
* *DEMHACK 7* hackathon | 29 September 2023 - 1 October 2023
  * Developed a system for *analyzing* `DNS` requests and automatically 
    bypassing website blocks based on open lists of blocked sites 
    from various countries.
  * Implemented *automated selection* of working *proxies*
    by checking and caching their status.

=== Pet Projects === 
* [[https://github.com/ssleert/zfxtop|zfxtop]]
  * *TUI* utility in `Go` for monitoring *processor*, *ram*, *swap*,
    *battery percentages*, *temperature*, *disks*. Written 
    from scratch including the entire *TUI* and gathering
    statistics via `procfs` and a couple of *syscalls*. 
    ([[https://www.reddit.com/r/unixporn/comments/11cfas8/oc_zfxtop_fetch_top_for_gen_z_with_x|Reddit Post]])

* [[https://github.com/ssleert/hywer|Hywer]]
  * *World Smallest*^(~1.5kb)^, `JSX` based, Fine Grained Reactive `UI` Library.
    Super performant & Virtual DOM *Free*. 
    ([[https://www.reddit.com/r/javascript/comments/1b8j23r/hywerjs_world_smallest_1kb_jsxbased_reactive_ui|Reddit Post]])

* [[https://github.com/ssleert/WaterMelonCoin|WaterMelonCoin]]
  * Compact *Proof-Of-Work* blockchain written in `C99`. Primarily created for reusable libraries in other projects.
    * [[https://github.com/ssleert/pyblock|PyBlock]] - similar project in `Python` worth remembering.

* [[https://github.com/zpx64/supreme-octopus|supreme-octopus]]
  * Social network with `REST API`, implemented in `Go` and `PostgreSQL`, served by `Nginx` and deployed via `Docker Compose`.

* [[https://github.com/ssleert/trinity|trinity]]
  * Chat server in *pure* `C99` without any external dependencies.

* [[https://github.com/ssleert/ccc|ccc]]
  * Cache cleaning daemon in `C`. Created to address inefficient memory freeing by older kernels causing heavy `swap` usage and slowdowns in *GTA V* on `Linux`. The game would even crash due to `oom` without `swap`.

=== Research Projects ===
  * [[https://github.com/ssleert/asyncness|asyncness]]
    * stackless coroutines with async/await for `C99`.
      Mostly used in microcontrollers.
  * [[https://github.com/ssleert/flick|Flick]] 
    * Social network with backend in `C++` using `fastcgi+http3` and `msgpack`.
      My playground for C++26 and various bleeding edge stack.
  * [[https://github.com/ssleert/watch|watch(1)]] - `watch(1)` for `OpenBSD`. Because it's not there out of the box.

=== Skills ===
* Programming Languages:
  * `Go` `C++` `C` `Python` `PHP`, `JavaScript`
* Database Management Systems (DBMS):
  * `PostgreSQL(pgx)` `MySQL` `MongoDB`, `SQLite3`, `ArangoDB`

* DevOps Tools and Technologies:
  * `Swagger` `Docker/Podman` `ci/cd` `k8s`

* Development and Server Tools:
  * `Nginx` `Make` `CMake` `Linux`
